---
layout: post
title: Hack Reactor - Week 2 Day 1
---

Week 2 has begun.  The energy still remains high throughout the cohort.  

Today we started a new sprint focused on sub classes and pseudo classical instantiation.  We also had the first of many student presentations on various topics.  Today's was given by a senior and was about anti-bodies.  Needless to say this was over my head, but an interesting part of the curriculum nevertheless.

Highlights of the day:

* Keyboard shortcuts
* Keyboard shortcuts
* Keyboard shortcuts
* Permutations

### Keyboard shortcuts

Wow, just wow!  I knew I was missing out on a lot of power, but Josh Wyatt blew me away.  He showed us tons of great tips for Sublime, Bash, Chrome, and more.  Just a great, great lecture.  To top it off, it was a bonus.  Not on the curriculum.  Hack Reactor is so great!

### Permutations

Had a great discussion about permutations with cohortmate, Neil Lokare.  It started by discussing one of the extra credit problems from the prior sprint.  Basically, given a set of letters, how do you identify all the valid words.  My pair, Eric Benson, and I tried to do this recursively.  Neil got it to work using a permutation library, but there were some errors.  It seems that there isn't a good library to do this.

The more we talked about it, the more interested I became.  I love hard problems and trying to reason through a solution.  This one is no different.  Perhaps this will be something we work on to get a good library published.