---
layout: post
title: Hack Reactor - Week 4 Day 6
tags: [Hack Reactor, SQL]
---

Highlights of the day:

* SQL
* Reflections after 4 weeks

### SQL

Today was all about inner joins and nested select statements.  SQL is very powerful, but you have to chain the syntax together correctly.  That and there are a few different ways to make certain requests.  

We were able to get the database to write and read our data.  The hardest part was nesting selects into our insert.  

Overall, I like working with databases and keeping data persistent.

<!--more-->

### Reflections after 4 weeks

Wow, so this has concluded the first month of Hack Reactor.  We have covered a lot, and I'm glad to have documented much of it in this blog.  With the pace of the course, it is often hard to remember what topic we were covering just a few days ago.  

How satisfied am I with [Hack Reactor](www.hackreactor.com)?

<!--more-->

I couldn't be happier.  The course is everythign I imagined and more.  My cohort is just full of amazing people.  All different skillsets and all with great personalities to boot.  I can and have worked with all in the group and I love that we all spend time together, joking and being.  

Last night after class, a big group of 9 of us, went out to have beers and just reflect on everything.  This was so much fun.

On the education side, I feel like a more confident programmer than when we started.  I have been able to builde usable products in just a few days.  Each day is full of learning, from small toy problems to the larger spints to the lectures.  I am learning so very much and starting to recognize the patterns that will lead to success in the future.

I'm excited for what's to come.  I'm confident that the cohort will land amazing jobs at amazing companies.  

If you are hedging on Hack Reactor, I'll say again that I can't recommend it more highly.  The environment and energy will get you where you want to go.  

As HR says, trust them and trust the process.  At the same time, if you are driven, HR will be a place to accelerate you to your goal.

